---
title: Real artists ship
tags: [rant, programming]
---

I want to tackle an issue which seems prevalent in the modern software
engineering industry. The idea, laid down by [Steve Jobs](TODO), is that "real
artists ship" and everyone else is forgotten. What does it mean to be a "real
artist," and what does it mean to "ship" as one? I think what Jobs meant when he
said it and what many others mean when they parrot it may be quite different.
It's become a facade, analogous to
[YOLO](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Yolo), intended to cover
one's tracks of poor engineering practices, lack of tool understanding, and lack
of concern for the success of the product beyond delivery.

### It's a joke
Many people do say "real artists ship" as joke, when knowingly tolerating some
poor practice. The problem worth pointing out is that, while this is a joke,
it's actually masking the underlying issue in unsettling humor. It's become
affordable, in engineering social circles and development teams, to subvert good
practice in favor of reaching deadlines -- and here's the kicker -- with no
intention of returning to the code to refactor.

Furthermore, it's become an attack against those who do care about software
quality. In this form, it's not a joke at all, but a claim from a high horse
that shipped products are not polished products, or stable products, or secure
products. A lunch-time conversation between two equal-ranked devs may go like
this:

Sally: *"Did you get tests written for the new notification system?"*

Heather: *"No, I needed to get it out the door."*

Sally: *"Yeah, that dealine was tight. Do you plan on getting the tests written
before the next sprint?"*

Heather: *"No, I don't think they're important. The code works and it's live."*

Sally: *"It is important, since it's such a core system; we can verify all parts
of it behave as expected, and protect against regressions, with tests."*

Heather: *"If we do it your way, Sally, we never ship. Real artists ship."*

### The philosophy

### The damage

### What Jobs really meant

### What "real artists" may be
